= GirFFI

by Matijs van Zuijlen

http://www.github.com/mvz/ruby-gir-ffi

== Description

Ruby bindings for GNOME using the GObject Introspection Repository.

== Features/Problems

* Create bindings to GObject-based libraries at runtime
* Almost, but not entirely done yet

== Synopsis

  require 'gir_ffi'

  GirFFI.setup :Gtk
  Gtk.init
  win = Gtk::Window.new :toplevel

See the `examples/` directory for more, well, examples.

== Requirements

* Ruby-FFI of course
* gobject-introspection installed with some introspection data
* The `rr` and `minitest` gems for testing

Depending on the GIR data, GirFFI needs the actual libraries to be
available under the name ending in plain `.so`. If GirFFI complains that it
cannot find the library, try installing development packages for those
libraries.

On Debian and Ubuntu, the following set of packages should be enough to get
`rake test` working: `libgirepository1.0-dev` (at least version 0.10),
`gir1.2-gtk-2.0` and `libgtk2.0-dev`.

== Hacking and contributing

This is still very much a work in progress. You can start exploring by
running the example programs in the `examples/` folder. Some illustrate
what works, some are a test bed for how things should work. Have a look at
the output of `rake notes`. Feel free to file bugs or send pull requests.

If you want to send pull requests or patches, please:

* Make sure `rake test` runs without reporting any failures. If your code
  breaks existing stuff, it won't get merged in.
* Add tests for your feature. Otherwise, I can't see if it works or if I
  break it later.
* Make sure latest master merges cleanly with your branch. Things might
  have moved around since you forked.
* Try not to include changes that are irrelevant to your feature in the
  same commit.

== Install

* sudo gem install gir_ffi

== License

Copyright (c) 2009--2011 Matijs van Zuijlen

GirFFI is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, version 2.1 or later. See the file COPYING.LIB for
more information.
